I did not like the way that I was living
my life and I did not like the path that
I had went down I made lots of choices
in my life and they led me to get my
heart broken and just terrible things
happening to me
Kanade June 3 has become Muslim she's a
famous youtuber and I think a lot of
people will you know leech off these
views she got over like 300 thousand
views on it the main thing I want to say
is that it's actually good that people
like this go on camera and say why they
converted to Islam because years ago
when the climate was a little bit
rougher where it was like near the
September 11th and the Iraq war prime
type of era it was sort of a mystery why
a westerner would convert to Islam I
didn't like the future that was going to
come over me if I did not make a change
it was a few days that I felt a little
bit down and I went to the bookstore and
I went and bought this Quran I just
started to read from front to continuing
forward and I just felt like it was true
in the Quran there's a lot of stuff
that's backed by science in the
beginning when I decided okay I'm going
to be Muslim I was a little bit worried
because you know you have to learn how
to pray and she mentions in this video
that it's not a phase that she's going
through and I hate to break the sad news
it's it is a phase and we have to face
reality when it comes to these things
people go through so many phases it's
sort of like saying I feel bad for not
being Mexican so I'm gonna wear sombrero
and sing la Cucaracha and everything and
blended with my Mexican brothers and
sisters and meanwhile the Mexican
American is just like staying in there
you know staring at you like you're an
idiot and I know there will be people
non-muslims who will judge me and sadly
I know there will be Muslims who also
judge me and I've been warned by my
friends that I will be judged by other
other Muslim people and it is kind of
hurtful and sad
that day they would judge one of their
brothers or sisters I give her credit
she's not afraid to go on camera and
smoke hookah and do what she wants and
not wear the hijab in some of her videos
and that and that's exactly what the
Muslim world needs to see more often
they need to see the the convert like
doing all this crazy stuff and saying
you know don't judge me
that kind of thing and we just need to
stand by on the sidelines and just be
like okay do your thing so I think it's
great that we have this like public
sphere of people like giving not so
intellectual reasons of why converting
to their religion I wasted a lot of time
the most valuable thing we have is time
because you can't take it back you can
plan to do stuff in the future but you
cannot unplan what you have already done
and I'm 27 now and I feel like I have
spent a lot of time just going around in
circles I did spend a lot of time
basically going in circles spinning me
around the circle oh that's guinea
blonde girl something about the ages
I found college algebra again that
skinny blonde girl ages and ages
[Music]
beautiful I describe myself as a
nihilist but the study of religion has
been a huge part of my life the study of
ideology and political ideologies been a
huge part of my life there was a time
when I really did for me when I really
did convert to Buddhism Orthodox tera
vaada Buddhism and what I had to go
through a process of explaining to
people in my life what that religion
meant and what it meant to me and what I
describe myself as being a Buddhist and
not merely being a scholar of Buddhism
not merely studying Buddhism from the
outside you know how I did and didn't
relate to oppressive aspects of the
religions supernatural aspects of the
religion won't have you as a white
Western person you know born raised and
educated in Canada obviously I couldn't
relate to terabit of Buddhism the same
way as a rice farmer who grew up in
rural Myanmar literally believing in
ghosts you know literally like you know
burning incense and making religious
offerings to go so literally believing
in astrology in the position of the
stars determining their fate there all
kinds of supernatural beliefs that are
rolled out with Buddhism or indeed you
know obviously I wasn't the same as
someone who grew up with a belief in the
actual omniscience or omnipotence of the
Buddha or of any of the Buddhist gods
because Buddhism is a polytheistic
religion like Indra and what-have-you so
there was a lot to negotiate there and
there's definitely level on which I can
sympathize with Canada Jensen's position
even though it is totally unsympathetic
and indeed laughable the first time we
watch this video together full
disclosure we laughed our asses off like
we laughed for like 45 minutes because
it was so ridiculous we laughed at her
own rationale for why she converted to
Islam her explanation about just the
sheep of Saudi Arabia as
country on the map we laughed at her use
of the English language it's
mind-blowing
you know just sentence structure my kid
yeah Saudi Arabia was her favorite
country from a kid and this such strange
use of the English language amor
there were so many things that just made
us burst out laughing again and again
her rationale for her faith and I think
also you know the gap between that
rationale the excuses she's making and
what would are pretty plainly the the
underlying reasons no no we both watched
a couple of Woody Allen movies lately
I'd like to make YouTube video talking
about buddy Allen movies actually
because that's also kinda interesting
thought I'm not I'm not a Woody Allen
fan by the way it was kind of in the end
you know one of them was zelich so Woody
Allen has this movie called Zelig and
Zelig really deals with the mentality of
the conformist and so you jump in
anytime babe but I mean from my
perspective somebody like Canada gin-san
is somebody who wants to be exceptional
without earning that exception and when
she first went to Japan as a young white
woman a high school dropout some of me
with no career and no ambitions and no
future ahead of her she went from being
a nondescript somewhat ugly presumably
learning-disabled white canadian young
woman to suddenly being the center of
attention
suddenly I mean kind of unearned Fame in
Japan being treated like a celebrity
when she went to a nightclub all the
attention was on her being treated as
beautiful and desirable and exotic
she went to Japan and she simultaneously
became an ultra conformist she became
extremely projet ponies but really a
Japanese nationalist and I've met and
spoke with other white people who become
white Japanese nationalists this bizarre
but yeah again it's not hard to imagine
why she became an ultra conformist but
her form of conformism like Zelig was
not intended to become an anonymous
member of the crowd on the contrary by
conforming she at the same time became
an exception Dada kind kinds of
undeserved
positive attention undeserved unearned
fame you know she was getting all kinds
of that that's all there is to say about
it positive flattering attention
constantly and you know in terms of her
work history she has worked as a
waitress she has worked as I guess what
here at Rio McColl an entertainment
worker where you dress up with elaborate
hair and makeup and stand around the
serving drinks in a specialized kind of
bar and lighting people's cigarettes um
what have you I'm not hating on her for
that then you know by her own account
her life in the past before she
converted to Islam she spent a lot of
times in night clubs and discos and bars
and as she says having her heart broken
and you know I'm not gonna speculate on
what that means but to some extent we
all know what having her heartbroken
means and now this has led up to her
making the sudden I think rash decision
to purchase the Quran yes she did not
cover to cover
start continuing on she did not read
from cover to cover she did not read it
from start that she read from the the
front cover to continuing on and then
decided to convert to Islam because as
she says she found things in the Quran
that were confirmed by science but yeah
I think this is another Zelig like case
of ultra conformism at the same time
making you an ultra exception I mean you
know once that's normalized for you once
you're once you've gotten used to being
the white girl at the nightclub in Japan
once the thrill is gone from that once
it's worn off well now being the white
girl in hijab in Japan now I mean now
she's the special white girl at the
mosque now I mean it's it's the same
pattern you know she's the ultra
conformist and she doesn't just become
invisibly a low-key Muslim she doesn't
become a liberal watered-down Muslim she
goes all out the same way she didn't
just become a normal you know immigrants
to Japan she had to do you know go to
this extreme where she's you know
wrapping herself in the Japanese flag
becoming kind of a you know Japanese
nationalist same way she's she's really
wrapping herself in Islam
and the more she conforms also the more
she stands out she stands out within
Islam she stands out within Japanese
society etc etc and she gets a certain
kind of undeserved Fame undeserved
notoriety unearned attention and I think
that's that's what she's been after all
along so yeah I hope you get the
immersion I don't say this in hate my
heart but I did have one really
memorable conversation with Canada
chance and via Facebook messages and I
wrote to her because of her series of
videos that were new at that time she
made videos dealing with immigration law
immigration policy and national identity
in Japan and at the University of
Victoria I just formally researched and
wrote essays on that exact topic
including a looked at the specific laws
and I have never been more convinced
that someone I was talking to was
learning disabled and or literally
[ __ ] and I think she is someone who
has very serious mental impairment
various serious problems and will come
back that I think one of the saddest
things about religion you can even see
this about Buddhism religion preys on
the weak religion preys on people who
want to believe and need to believe I
mean you can see it within a Christian
Church you can see within Catholicism
within you know process what have you
but you know if you think yeah well
she's never announced that she doesn't
identify as as mentally [ __ ] but
sure of you know just from my
interaction there believe I've never
been more convinced the person I was
talking to was a really serious mental
disability or combination of learning
disabilities and mental impairment or
what-have-you right but it's really sad
no Buddhism is a relatively harmless
religion because it's against violence
which is very fundamental Buddhism is in
principle even against hurting a fly or
a mosquito by the way but you know when
you whenever you look at Islam or
Christianity you'll meet people some of
them are weak because their ex
alcoholics you know and they convert for
that reason and they're trying to quit
alcohol trying to quit the bottle some
of them are weak because as Canada Jen
said she had her heart broken that's the
realest part of that video is where she
says she
turn to as long because she had her
heart broken she decided her life was
sorted I think I can use that word
sorted and she wanted to turn over know
if she wanted to have a morally positive
new chapter in her life that's real you
know I totally relate to that but also
it is really sad to see that religion
converts and appeals to and manipulates
and controls people who are mentally and
intellectually weak they're not
recruiting the brightest and the boldest
you know they're very often recruiting
those who you know have nowhere else to
go and who lack the ability to
scrutinize the scientific claims the
historical claims even the ethical and
moral claims of these religions that are
very deeply flawed I'm you know very
simply you you've broke by me like the
role of slavery within the Bible without
even getting into the Quran you know
obviously within the Koran we have
things will get me of slavery and sex
slavery and jihad there all kinds of
issues but even if you just stick with
with very simple simple issues like the
status of slavery within the Old
Testament the new New Testament is what
it is so what do we have do we have a
conclusion I mean I only know about her
because you know you showed me her
YouTube channel and we watched the video
about her converting to Islam I was just
going based off that video it just seems
like she late as you say she really
wants to conform to these extremes and
it it is kind of laughable when you're
when you're watching from a distance but
you know for her it's her life struggle
yeah you know I know I feel bad for let
me know if you were converting to give a
book those of them yeah I want to say
with all the sympathy when I was
involved with Buddhism I felt that my
status as a Buddhist in the puss
religion would never change
precisely because it wasn't based on
faith that's very different from
Catholicism very different from Judaism
or Islam right I was like well Here I am
involved in this religion and all I
really need to believe is that these
ancient texts are worth interpreting and
worth discussing that this philosophy is
worth talking about in the same sense
that the complete works of William
Shakespeare or we're talking about or in
the same sense that Aristotle Socrates
Plato or
talking about and that is a strength
Buddhism has over other religions to be
a Buddhist you do not have to believe in
Indra you do not have to have to believe
there was any literal truth to a
dialogue that's written between the
Buddha and Android artfully and anything
supernatural you just have to believe
that but as I said in a video you can
still find on this YouTube channel the
other element was believing in Buddhists
as people in order to be a member of the
religious community I imply it's not an
explicit article of faith I think you do
have to believe in effect this is a
community I want to be a part of this is
a group of people I want to identify
with you know you have to be a Muslim
ultimately you to identify publicly as a
Muslim you have to believe that Islam as
an actually existing religion is a group
of people you want to link your name to
and it was exactly in that way that I
ultimately hit the hard limit with
Buddhism I had to recognize who
Buddhists were as people having flown
all around the world having met the best
of the best having been of the most
elite Buddhist temples having spent time
in the most elite Buddhist universities
met Buddhist scholars etc etc I'd
literally gone to caves where monks
meditated and hold some very beautiful
and striking settings Sri Lanka Thailand
Laos Cambodia didn't really spend any
time in Myanmar but whatever I'd been
around the Buddhist world I'd met the
best and the brightest of that religion
at the end of that process you know I
had to reflect on who those people were
what the religion was to them and how I
fit into it and I think for Canada
jin-san also if there is something
that's gonna make her wake up to the
fact that Islam as a religion she should
extricate herself from it's a religion
that she should exclude herself from
it'll probably be the extent to which
those people actually existing Muslims
to which they exclude her you know when
she recognizes the extent to which she
is rejected and excluded for being who
she really is
and loke that's probably why she became
disillusioned with Japanese nests and
being a Japanese nationalist she must
have finally put the pieces together to
quote to quote
rap song by OMB peasy you can love the
streets they won't love you back it
doesn't matter how much you wrap
yourself in the Japanese flag those
people are never gonna embrace you you
know you're always gonna be the funny
laughable outsider and you can go to the
nightclub and get a lot of flattering
attention from Japanese guys who've
never had the chance to flirt with a
white girl before you can be the Freak
again and again and again but from her
perspective she's trying to conform like
Zelig you know it'll never love you back
the Japanese are never gonna give you
back that recognition you're giving them
by definition you know in cleaving unto
Japanese nationalism and she tried to go
through the immigration process I
remember she made a video that was like
low-key heartbreaking about how she
planned to have a child and not teach
the child English like she would have
like a half Japanese baby in Japan and
raised it only speaking Japanese
Japanese because she was such a pro
Japanese nationalist assimilationist she
wanted to lose herself in that Japanese
identity but when they're looking at you
they ain't they ain't lost you they know
exactly who you are exactly what you are
you're you're always the odd one out
you're always the butt of every joke
when your back is turned you know as
laughable as it may seem for us for me
as a white Canadian to look at her as a
white Canadian and sibling into [ __ ]
Japanese identity it's much more
laughable from the perspective of those
people who really represent that that
Japanese identity and she'll figure it
out sooner or later but as laughable as
she is from my perspective as a
nihilistic ex Buddhist white Canadian as
laughable as that may be from my
perspective it is much more laughable
from the perspective of the Muslim
people who really live and really
represent that religion and so you know
her status in that community she will
never quite fit and if I can make a
prediction for the future I guess for
that reason she's gonna lose faith not
in the tenets of the religion but she's
gonna lose faith in the religious
community as a group of people that
ultimately can never accept her and
where she can never accept her own place
a Buddhist yen